# Introduction

GeoJSON is a format for encoding a variety of geographic data structures
using JavaScript Object Notation (JSON) [RFC7159]. A GeoJSON object may
represent a region of space (a Geometry), a spatially-bounded entity (a
Feature), or a list of features (a Feature Collection). GeoJSON supports
the following geometry types: Point, LineString, Polygon, MultiPoint,
MultiLineString, MultiPolygon, and GeometryCollection.  Features in
GeoJSON contain a geometry object and additional properties, and
a Feature Collection contains a list of features.

The format is concerned with geographic data in the broadest sense; any
thing with qualities that are bounded in geographical space might be
a feature whether it is a physical structure or not. The concepts in
GeoJSON are not new; they are derived from pre-existing open geographic
information system standards and have been streamlined to better suit
web application development using JSON.

GeoJSON comprises the seven concrete geometry types defined in the
OpenGIS Simple Features Implementation Specification for SQL [SFSQL]:
0-dimensional Point and MultiPoint; 1-dimensional curve LineString and
MultiLineString; 2-dimensional surface Polygon and MultiPolygon; and the
heterogeneous GeometryCollection. GeoJSON representations of instances
of these geometry types are analogous to the well-known binary (WKB) and
text (WKT) representations described in that same specification.

GeoJSON also comprises the types Feature and FeatureCollection. Feature
objects in GeoJSON contain a geometry object with one of the above
geometry types and additional members. A FeatureCollection object
contains an array of feature objects. This structure is analogous to
that of the Web Feature Service (WFS) response to GetFeatures requests
specified in [WFSv1] or to a Keyhole Markup Language (KML) Folder of Placemarks
[KMLv2.2]. Some implementations of the WFS specification also provide GeoJSON
formatted responses to GetFeature requests, but there is no particular service
model or feature type ontology implied in the GeoJSON format specification.

Since its initial publication in 2008 [GJ2008], the GeoJSON format
specification has steadily grown in popularity. It is widely used in
JavaScript web mapping libraries, JSON-based document databases, and web
APIs.

## Requirements Language

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   [RFC2119].

## Conventions Used in This Document

The ordering of the members of any JSON object defined in this document
MUST be considered irrelevant, as specified by [RFC7159].

Some examples use the combination of a JavaScript single line comment
(//) followed by an ellipsis (...) as placeholder notation for content
deemed irrelevant by the authors. These placeholders must of course be
deleted or otherwise replaced, before attempting to validate the
corresponding JSON code example.

Whitespace is used in the examples inside this document to help
illustrate the data structures, but is not required. Unquoted whitespace
is not significant in JSON.

## Specification of GeoJSON

This document updates the original GeoJSON format specification
[GJ2008].

## Definitions

* JavaScript Object Notation (JSON), and the terms object, member,
  name, value, array, number, true, false, and null are to be
  interpreted as defined in [RFC7159].

* Inside this document the term "geometry type" refers to the seven
  case-sensitive strings: "Point", "MultiPoint", "LineString",
  "MultiLineString", "Polygon", "MultiPolygon", and
  "GeometryCollection".

* As another shorthand notation, the term "GeoJSON types" refers to the
  nine case-sensitive strings "Feature", "FeatureCollection" and the
  geometry types listed above.

* The word "Collection" in "FeatureCollection" and "GeometryCollection"
  does not have any significance for the semantics of array members.
  The "features" and "geometries" members, respectively, of these
  objects are standard ordered JSON arrays, not unordered sets.

## Example

A GeoJSON feature collection:

    {
        "type": "FeatureCollection",
        "features": [{
            "type": "Feature",
            "geometry": {
                "type": "Point",
                "coordinates": [102.0, 0.5]
            },
            "properties": {
                "prop0": "value0"
            }
        }, {
            "type": "Feature",
            "geometry": {
                "type": "LineString",
                "coordinates": [
                    [102.0, 0.0],
                    [103.0, 1.0],
                    [104.0, 0.0],
                    [105.0, 1.0]
                ]
            },
            "properties": {
                "prop0": "value0",
                "prop1": 0.0
            }
        }, {
            "type": "Feature",
            "geometry": {
                "type": "Polygon",
                "coordinates": [
                    [
                        [100.0, 0.0],
                        [101.0, 0.0],
                        [101.0, 1.0],
                        [100.0, 1.0],
                        [100.0, 0.0]
                    ]
                ]
            },
            "properties": {
                "prop0": "value0",
                "prop1": {
                    "this": "that"
                }
            }
        }]
    }

# GeoJSON Text

A GeoJSON text is a JSON text and consists of a single GeoJSON object.

# GeoJSON Object

A GeoJSON object represents a geometry, feature, or collection of
features.

* A GeoJSON object is a JSON object.

* A GeoJSON object has a member with the name "type". The value
  of the member MUST be one of the GeoJSON types.

* A GeoJSON object MAY have a "bbox" member, the value of which MUST be
  a bounding box array (see [](#bounding-box)).

* A GeoJSON object MAY have any number of other members (see
  [](#extending-geojson)).

## Geometry Object

A Geometry object represents points, curves, and surfaces in coordinate
space.

* The value of a geometry object's "type" member MUST be one of the
  seven geometry types (see [](#definitions)).

* A GeoJSON geometry object of any type other than "GeometryCollection"
  has a member with the name "coordinates". The value of the
  coordinates member is an array. The structure of the elements
  in this array is determined by the type of geometry. GeoJSON
  processors MAY interpret geometry objects with empty coordinates
  arrays as null objects.

### Position

A position is the fundamental geometry construct. The "coordinates"
member of a geometry object is composed of either:

* one position in the case of a Point geometry,

* an array of positions in the case of a LineString or MultiPoint geometry,

* an array of LineString or linear ring (see [](#polygon)) coordinates in the
  case of a Polygon or MultiLineString geometry,

* or an array of Polygon coordinates in the case of a MultiPolygon geometry.

A position is an array of numbers. There MUST be two or more elements.
The first two elements are longitude and latitude, or easting and
northing, precisely in that order and using decimal numbers.  Altitude
or elevation MAY be included as an optional third element.

Implementations SHOULD NOT extend positions beyond 3 elements because
the semantics of extra elements are unspecified and ambiguous.
Historically, some implementations have used a 4th element to carry
a linear referencing measure (sometimes denoted as "M") or a numerical
timestamp, but in most situations a parser will not be able to properly
interpret these values. The interpretation and meaning of additional
elements is beyond the scope of this specification and additional
elements MAY be ignored by parsers.

A line between two positions is a straight Cartesian line, the shortest
line between those two points in the Coordinate Reference System (see
[](#coordinate-reference-system)).

In other words, every point on a line that does not cross the
antimeridian between a point (lon0, lat0) and (lon1, lat1) can be
calculated as

    F(lon, lat) = (lon0 + (lon1 - lon0) * t, lat0 + (lat1 - lat0) * t)

with t a real number greater or equal to 0 and smaller or equal to 1.
Note that this line may markedly differ from the geodesic path along the
curved surface of the reference ellipsoid.

The same applies to the optional height element with the proviso that
the direction of the height is as specified in the Coordinate Reference
System.

Note that, again, this does not mean that a surface with equal height
follows, for example, the curvature of a body of water. Nor is a surface
of equal height perpendicular to a plumb line.

Examples of positions and geometries are provided in "Appendix A.
Geometry Examples".

### Point

For type "Point", the "coordinates" member is a single position.

### MultiPoint

For type "MultiPoint", the "coordinates" member is an array of
positions.

### LineString

For type "LineString", the "coordinates" member is an array of two
or more positions.

### MultiLineString

For type "MultiLineString", the "coordinates" member is an array of
LineString coordinate arrays.

### Polygon

To specify a constraint specific to polygons, it is useful to introduce
the concept of a linear ring:

* A linear ring is a closed LineString with 4 or more positions.

* The first and last positions are equivalent, they MUST contain identical
  values; their representation SHOULD also be identical.

* A linear ring is the boundary of a surface or the boundary of a hole in
  a surface.

* A linear ring MUST follow the right-hand rule with respect to the area
  it bounds (i.e., exterior rings are counter-clockwise, holes are
  clockwise).

Note: the [GJ2008] specification did not discuss linear ring winding order.
For backwards compatibility, parsers SHOULD NOT reject polygons that do not
follow the right-hand rule.

Though a linear ring is not explicitly represented as a GeoJSON geometry
type, it leads to a canonical formulation of the Polygon geometry type
definition as follows:

* For type "Polygon", the "coordinates" member MUST be an array of
  linear ring coordinate arrays.

* For Polygons with more than one of these rings, the first MUST be the
  exterior ring and any others MUST be interior rings. The exterior ring
  bounds the surface, and the interior rings (if present) bound holes
  within the surface.

### MultiPolygon

For type "MultiPolygon", the "coordinates" member is an array of
Polygon coordinate arrays.

### Geometry Collection

A GeoJSON object with type "GeometryCollection" is a geometry object.
A geometry collection has a member with the name "geometries". The
value of "geometries" is an array. Each element of this array is a GeoJSON
geometry object. It is possible for this array to be empty.

Unlike the other geometry types described above,
a geometry collection can be a heterogeneous composition of smaller
geometry objects. For example, a geometry object in the shape of
a lowercase roman "i" can be composed of one point and one line string.

Geometry collections have a different syntax from single type geometry
objects (Point, LineString, and Polygon) and homogeneously typed
multipart geometry objects (MultiPoint, MultiLineString, and
MultiPolygon) but have no different semantics. Although a geometry
collection object has no "coordinates" member, it does have coordinates:
the coordinates of all its parts belong to the collection.  The
"geometries" member of a geometry collection describes the parts of this
composition. Implementations SHOULD NOT apply any additional semantics
to the "geometries" array.

To maximize interoperability implementations SHOULD avoid nested
geometry collections. Furthermore, geometry collections composed of
a single part or a number of parts of a single type SHOULD be avoided when
that single part or a single object of multi-part type (MultiPoint,
MultiLineString, or MultiPolygon) could be used instead.

### Antimeridian Cutting

In representing features that cross the antimeridian, interoperability
is improved by modifying their geometry. Any geometry that crosses the
antimeridian SHOULD be represented by cutting it in two such that
neither part's representation crosses the antimeridian.

For example, a line extending from 45 degrees N, 170 degrees E across
the antimeridian to 45 degrees N, 170 degrees W should be cut in two and
represented as a MultiLineString.

    {
        "type": "MultiLineString",
        "coordinates": [
            [
                [170.0, 45.0], [180.0, 45.0]
            ], [
                [-180.0, 45.0], [-170.0, 45.0]
            ]
        ]
    }

A rectangle extending from 40 degrees N, 170 degrees E across the
antimeridian to 50 degrees N, 170 degrees W should be cut in two and
represented as a MultiPolygon.

    {
        "type": "MultiPolygon",
        "coordinates": [
            [
                [
                    [180.0, 40.0], [180.0, 50.0], [170.0, 50.0],
                    [170.0, 40.0], [180.0, 40.0]
                ]
            ],
            [
                [
                    [-170.0, 40.0], [-170.0, 50.0], [-180.0, 50.0],
                    [-180.0, 40.0], [-170.0, 40.0]
                ]
            ]
        ]
    }

### Uncertainty and Precision

As in [RFC5870] the number of digits of the values in coordinate
positions MUST NOT be interpreted as an indication to the level of
uncertainty.

## Feature Object

A Feature object represents a spatially-bounded thing.

* A feature object has a "type" member with the value "Feature".

* A feature object has a member with the name "geometry". The
  value of the geometry member SHALL be either a geometry object as
  defined above or, in the case that the feature is unlocated,
  a JSON null value.

* A feature object has a member with the name "properties". The
  value of the properties member is an object (any JSON object or a
  JSON null value).

* If a feature has a commonly used identifier, that identifier SHOULD be
  included as a member of the feature object with the name "id", and the
  value of this member is either a JSON string or number.

## Feature Collection Object

A GeoJSON object with the type "FeatureCollection" is a feature
collection object. A feature collection object has a member with
the name "features". The value of "features" is a JSON array. Each
element of the array is a feature object as defined above. It is
possible for this array to be empty.

# Coordinate Reference System

The coordinate reference system for all GeoJSON coordinates is
a geographic coordinate reference system, using the WGS 84 [WGS84]
datum, and with longitude and latitude units of decimal degrees. This
is equivalent to the coordinate reference system identified by the OGC
URN urn:ogc:def:crs:OGC::CRS84. An OPTIONAL third position element SHALL
be the height in meters above or below the WGS 84 reference ellipsoid.
In the absence of elevation values, applications sensitive to height or
depth SHOULD interpret positions as being at local ground or sea level.

Note: the use of alternative coordinate reference systems was specified
in [GJ2008], but has been removed from this version of the
specification because the use of different coordinate reference systems
-- especially in the manner specified in [GJ2008] -- has proven to have
interoperability issues. In general, GeoJSON processing software is not
expected to have access to coordinate reference systems databases or
to have network access to coordinate reference system transformation
parameters. However, where all involved parties have a prior
arrangement, alternative coordinate reference systems can be used
without risk of data being misinterpreted.

# Bounding Box

A GeoJSON object MAY have a member named "bbox" to include information
on the coordinate range for its geometries, features, or feature
collections. The value of the bbox member MUST be an array of length
2*n where n is the number of dimensions represented in the contained
geometries, with all axes of the most south-westerly point followed by
all axes of the more north-easterly point. The axes order of a bbox
follows the axes order of geometries.

The "bbox" values define shapes with edges that follow lines of constant
longitude, latitude, and elevation.

Example of a 2D bbox member on a feature:

    {
        "type": "Feature",
        "bbox": [-10.0, -10.0, 10.0, 10.0],
        "geometry": {
            "type": "Polygon",
            "coordinates": [
                [
                    [-10.0, -10.0],
                    [10.0, -10.0],
                    [10.0, 10.0],
                    [-10.0, -10.0]
                ]
            ]
        }
        //...
    }

Example of a 2D bbox member on a feature collection:

    {
        "type": "FeatureCollection",
        "bbox": [100.0, 0.0, 105.0, 1.0],
        "features": [
        //...
        ]
    }

Example of a 3D bbox member with a depth of 100 meters:

    {
        "type": "FeatureCollection",
        "bbox": [100.0, 0.0, -100.0, 105.0, 1.0, 0.0],
        "features": [
        //...
        ]
    }

## The Connecting Lines

The 4 lines of the bounding box are defined fully within the coordinate
reference system; i.e. for a box bounded by the values "west", "south",
"east", and "north" every point on the northernmost line can be
expressed as

    (lon, lat) = (west + (east - west) * t, north)

with 0 <= t <= 1.

## The Antimeridian

Consider a set of point features within the Fiji archipelago, straddling
the antimeridian between 16 degrees S and 20 degrees S. The southwest
corner of the box containing these features is at 20 degrees S and 177
degrees E, the northwest corner is at 16 degrees S and 178 degrees W.
The antimeridian-spanning GeoJSON bounding box for this feature
collection is

    "bbox": [177.0, -20.0, -178.0, -16.0]

and covers 5 degrees of longitude.

The complementary bounding box for the same latitude band, not crossing
the antimeridian, is

    "bbox": [-178.0, -20.0, 177.0, -16.0]

and covers 355 degrees of longitude.

The latitude of the northeast corner is always greater than the latitude
of the southwest corner, but bounding boxes that cross the antimeridian
have a northeast corner longitude that is less than the longitude of the
southwest corner.

## The Poles

A bounding box that contains the North Pole extends from a southwest
corner of "minlat" degrees N, 180 degrees W to a northeast corner of 90
degrees N, 180 degrees E. Viewed on a globe, this bounding box
approximates a spherical cap bounded by the "minlat" circle of latitude.

    "bbox": [-180.0, minlat, 180.0, 90.0]

A bounding box that contains the South Pole extends from a southwest
corner of 90 degrees S, 180 degrees W to a northeast corner of
"maxlat" degrees S, 180 degrees E.

    "bbox": [-180.0, -90.0, 180.0, maxlat]

A bounding box that just touches the North Pole and forms a slice of an
approximate spherical cap when viewed on a globe extends from
a southwest corner of "minlat" degrees N and "westlon" degrees E to
a northeast corner of 90 degrees N and "eastlon" degrees E.

    "bbox": [westlon, minlat, eastlon, 90.0]

Similarly, a bounding box that just touches the South Pole and forms
a slice of an approximate spherical cap when viewed on a globe has the
following representation in GeoJSON.

    "bbox": [westlon, -90.0, eastlon, maxlat]

Implementers MUST NOT use latitude values greater than 90 or less than
-90 to imply an extent that is not a spherical cap.

# Extending GeoJSON

## Foreign Members

Members not described in this specification ("foreign members") MAY be
used in a GeoJSON document. Note that support for foreign members can
vary across implementations and no normative processing model for
foreign members is defined. Accordingly, implementations that rely too
heavily on the use of foreign members might experience reduced
interoperability with other implementations.

For example, in the (abridged) feature object shown below

    {
        "type": "Feature",
        "id": "f1",
        "geometry": {...},
        "properties": {...},
        "title": "Example Feature"
    }

the name/value pair of "title": "Example Feature" is a foreign member.
When the value of a foreign member is an object, all the descendant
members of that object are themselves foreign members.

GeoJSON semantics do not apply to foreign members and their descendants,
regardless of their names and values. For example, in the (abridged)
feature object below

    {
        "type": "Feature",
        "id": "f2",
        "geometry": {...},
        "properties": {...},
        "centerline": {
            "type": "LineString",
            "coordinates": [
                [-170, 10],
                [170, 11]
            ]
        }
    }

the "centerline" member is not a GeoJSON geometry object.

# GeoJSON Types are not Extensible

Implementations MUST NOT extend the fixed set of GeoJSON types:
FeatureCollection, Feature, Point, LineString, MultiPoint, Polygon,
MultiLineString, MultiPolygon, and GeometryCollection.

## Semantics of GeoJSON Members and Types are not Changeable

Implementations MUST NOT change the semantics of GeoJSON members and
types.

The GeoJSON "coordinates" and "geometries" members define Geometry
objects. FeatureCollection and Feature objects, respectively, MUST NOT
contain a "coordinates" or "geometries" member.

The GeoJSON "geometry" and "properties" members define a Feature object.
FeatureCollection and Geometry objects, respectively, MUST NOT contain
a "geometry" or "properties" member.

The GeoJSON "features" member defines a FeatureCollection object.
Feature and Geometry objects, respectively, MUST NOT contain
a "features" member.

# Versioning

The GeoJSON format can be extended as defined here, but no explicit
versioning scheme is defined. A specification that alters the
semantics of GeoJSON members or otherwise modifies the format does not
create a new version of this format; instead, it defines an entirely
new format that MUST NOT be identified as GeoJSON.

# Mapping 'geo' URIs

'geo' URIs [RFC5870] identify geographic locations and precise (not uncertain)
locations can be mapped to GeoJSON geometry objects.

For this section, as in [RFC5870], "lat", "lon", "alt", and "unc" are
placeholders for 'geo' URI latitude, longitude, altitude, and
uncertainty values, respectively.

A 'geo' URI with two coordinates and an uncertainty ('u') parameter that
is absent or zero, and a GeoJSON Point geometry may be mapped to each other.
A GeoJSON point is always converted to a 'geo' URI that has no uncertainty
parameter.

'geo' URI:

  geo:lat,lon

GeoJSON:

  {"type": "Point", "coordinates": [lon, lat]}

The mapping between 'geo' URIs and GeoJSON points that specify elevation is
shown below.

'geo' URI:

  geo:lat,lon,alt

GeoJSON:

  {"type": "Point", "coordinates": [lon, lat, alt]}

GeoJSON has no concept of uncertainty; imprecise or uncertain 'geo' URIs thus
cannot be mapped to GeoJSON geometries.
